The promises of gold-lined streets and a better way of life lured many Europeans away from the poverty and persecution in the 
Old World during the late 1800s. The quota of immigrants from Germany at that time was almost as large as that of all Eastern 
and Mediterranean Europe combined. Among that favored group were Christina Flack and Heinrich Gehrig, who were to become the 
parents of Lou Gehrig, one of America's most famous professional baseball players.

Christina was born in 1881 in Wiltser, Schleswig-Holstein, a province of pre-World War I Germany, near the German-Danish 
border. She emigrated to the United States in 1899. Heinrich Ludwig Gehrig was born in 1867 in Adelsheim, Baden, and came to 
America in October of 1888. He originally spent some time in Chicago, but later settled in New York, where he met Christina 
who was fourteen years younger than he and stout as a keg. Like Heinrich, she was a Lutheran. They married in 1900.

In Boston and Pittsburgh in 1903, young men picked up their bats in the first modern World Series while Heinrich Gehrig was 
hoisting a stein of beer at his favorite German saloon in the Yorkville section of New York City where he and Christina had 
settled. Yorkville was a predominantly German neighborhood, but also contained Hungarian and Jewish families.

The Gehrigs had four children, but only the second-born survived past infancy. This baby was born on the sticky evening of 
June 19, 1903, inside the family's cramped and airless apartment on Manhattan's upper east side. The chunky, blue-eyed boy, 
who weighed almost fourteen pounds at birth, was named Heinrich Ludwig after his father. Americanized, his name was Henry 
Louis, or simply "Lou," as the husky boy came to be called.

Although life in the new land hadn't quite worked out as advertised for the Gehrigs, they clung stubbornly to the American 
dream. The Gehrigs got by on probably no more than three or four hundred dollars a year, and Lou was raised in a dirt-poor 
household close to the poverty level. Part of the problem was that Heinrich was either unable or unwilling to hold a steady 
job, preferring the camaraderies of the neighborhood saloon. To make ends meet, Christina had to work steadily, as a maid, 
taking in the laundry of rich folks, and developing a reputation as a cook who specialized in authentic German dishes like
whole roast pig, sauerbraten, roast goose and duck, and pickled eels. Lou helped out by delivering the laundry his mother 
cleaned.

When Lou was five years old the Gehrigs moved from Yorkville to Washington Heights. Lou's playmates there were mostly of 
Irish, Hungarian, and German heritage. There he was subjected to some teasing about his German roots and was known as 
"Heinie," "dumb Dutchman," or "Krauthead." However, as he grew older, his size and muscles made other kids realize that he was 
not one to be teased.
